Implement Journey Builder Cleanup (GEE-26092)

Description

As the email marketing lead, I would like recommendations to automating cleanup Journey Builder with approval processes, so that we can delete items that are no longer needed by the team.

Acceptance Criteria


SCENARIO 1: Create Journey Deletion Exclusion List
GIVEN some journeys may not run consistently due to fluctuations for some campaigns
WHEN Journey Deletion Exclusion data extension is created
THEN any journeys that contain "_AR_" and "_NT_" are added to the data extension // More journeys will be added by the business as needed

SCENARIO 2: Identify journeys sent more than 180 days ago
GIVEN there are no automated journey deletion process in place
WHEN a journey is sent more than 180 days // All emails for multi-send journeys need to meet this requirement
AND it is not on the exclusion list
THEN stop the journey and automatically move the journey into Journey Cleanup Review folder (keep outside of Recycle Bin)
AND this will be evaluated at the first the month
AND Cedric Bastian will be sent an email notification indicating that the Journey Cleanup Review folder is ready for review

SCENARIO 3: Stop and move journeys in the Recycle Bin folder
GIVEN there are journeys that exist in the Journey Cleanup Review folder
WHEN the last day of the month occurs
THEN stop all journeys in the Journey Cleanup Review
AND move these journeys to the Recycle Bin folder

SCENARIO 4: Delete journeys in the Recycle Bin folder
GIVEN there are journeys that exist in the Recycle Bin folder
WHEN the first day of the month occurs
THEN delete all journeys in the Recycle Bin folder2

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

First Month
Scenario 3 (Last day of month)
Stop journeys in Journey Cleanup Review.
Move them to Recycle Bin.
Send email: "These journeys will be deleted tomorrow."
Scenario 4 (1st day of next month)
Delete journeys currently in Recycle Bin.
At this point, those journeys are gone.
Same Automation Run Continues with Scenario 1 & 2
After the old Recycle Bin journeys are deleted, Scenarios 1 & 2 identify the next set of candidate journeys and move them into Journey Cleanup Review.
Then Cedric receives an email saying something like:
"The following journeys have been moved to Journey Cleanup Review and require review."
That gives him the entire month to review them before they are moved to Recycle Bin at the end of the month.
So the timeline becomes
1st of Month
Delete previous month's Recycle Bin journeys.
Run Scenario 1 & 2.
Move newly identified journeys to Journey Cleanup Review.
Send email to Cedric.
✅ Cedric gets ~30 days to review.
Last Day of Month
Move unreviewed journeys from Journey Cleanup Review to Recycle Bin.
Send warning email.
✅ "These will be deleted tomorrow."
1st of Next Month
Delete Recycle Bin journeys.
Repeat cycle.
So yes, if Scenario 1 & 2 are already running on the 1st of the month, the notification generated there effectively gives Cedric a full month to review. You don't need a separate "30-day review" notification automation. The review email naturally becomes part of the monthly identification process.